good morning so pleasure to start the OS
foundation track this year with a talk
entitled beyoncé's beyond syslog the
noose is the new log subsystem we have a
couple of interesting things planned for
logging although they they may look
rather small there's things that we'd
like to be able to leverage in the
future unfortunately I have a confession
to make if you wanted to go ahead and
use the technology i'm presenting today
to make a new dashboard widget to win
the competition the api's that we had to
show you today aren't actually on the CD
but will be coming sometime before Tiger
actually ships so my name is Nikolai
cracovia and I was it been introduced a
BFD technology group and first I'd like
to start with a background on on syslog
what it is what it does what it does
well and what it does not so well and
then also do a little bit on the
motivations on why we're actually
planning to do it a new logging
infrastructure again from some of those
logs sort of deficiencies there's a
little bit on system administration
beyond just logging plans that Apple has
for the future for different things that
you know unix administrators have been
asking for and by the end of the talk
you'll be able to have a little
familiarity with the the API that we're
planning how to write log messages had
actually searched through the log
messages and best practices for when and
what to log so what is this log well in
a world without syslog you just open up
a file and start you know printing
records to it but would the syslog
provides you is a system based facility
for being able to do all of your logging
through a central point this allows a
lot of configurability and allows for
messages not to be scattered all over
around your systems you don't have each
application writing individual log files
to various separate directories so by
having the centralized facility we can
then gain other functionality in
addition to printf
things like being able to tag priority
messages so a message like you know my
printer is on fire is very different
from you know i just opened up a tcp
connection and to be able to
differentiate between this is very
useful you can also do simple log
filtering you know based on these
priorities you can specify separate log
files that get the messages and things
like system dot log and VAR log gets the
majority of the data but you can also do
things like authorization information
with a slightly more secure file
permissions or things like log lugging
mail messages or or FTP connections also
go to their own separate files for in
extreme cases you can also write things
directly to dev console again like my
printer is on fire that might be a very
important message so administrator can
configure it so it goes directly to a
console as opposed to just a file so
users are more likely to see it
immediately this log also provides a
basic capability for remote logging as
unfortunately was designed back in the
heyday before denial of service attacks
and our fancy encryption so it's not
necessarily the most secure so it's not
enabled by default but we're looking
into possibly 69 so there are a number
of things that this log got right
centralized logging facility to be able
to have a centralized mechanism for
dealing with log messages being able to
specify log log levels for messages
everything from from debug through you
know emergency it provides a lightweight
API so it's a very low barrier for entry
for adoption and you don't want mugging
to be necessarily a difficult thing for
your users to to have to do it's also
very configurable on being able to
filter on on its priority and level and
also the ability to log to the triple
normal machines but there are a few
things that we'd like to address the
syslog it has no internationalization
support you can only log messages with a
subset of ascii this isn't very good for
the number of languages are very
difficult to represent and just a ski
the messages are also a little too
simple by only providing you know the
time
stamp and priority and then a message
there are a lot more things about a log
messages you can you can insert that
might be useful for person who wants to
look at those log messages while you
can't add them just for the loc method
string itself then it exhibits another
problem with this log it's an
unstructured format so it's difficult to
parse and it's also difficult to search
you just have to do things like using a
grep and fancy sort of expressions to be
able to get what you want so our goals
include adding a structured log format
to make searching much faster and easier
and in particular for a programmatic
perspective to be able to have rich data
to be able to attach to these log
messages as a separate field so you can
log things that won't necessarily just
appear through the log interface I'll
get a lightweight AP I don't want to
make it too complicated for you to
actually log your your messages and of
course backwards compatibility if your
program is written today to use this log
it should continue to work in into the
future another thing integrated log file
maintenance currently log files are
rotated by some external application
usually done through electron like
mechanism but chronically doesn't know a
whole lot about log messages so it'd be
really nice to be able to move some of
that functionality in word and then
extensible input and output facilities
be able to stay on control whether or
not you get blog messages from from
different available resources or or
being able to specify the outputs and
I'll give some examples of that later
for log file maintenance I think it
would be really nice to be able to have
configurable log file expiration so a
system administrator can say you know
keep all messages higher than warning
those are going to be messages that I
want to archive you know well into the
future but I might only want to keep
like the last 200 info messages so and
those can be just as a rotating rotating
sort of buffer you might want to say
don't keep debug messages from an app
that continually you know spews out into
the syslog because they're just
cluttering up your logs and you don't
find that information valuable
we're also thinking things like you know
don't spin up the disk so you can save
battery life that's opposed to having to
write these log file messages and then
also we'd like to add like filtering on
compound expressions so all of you sort
of rules can be have you know
complicated things like you know you
know John that has a luggable greater
than notice you might want to do
something special with or all of my log
levels yesterday that we're of a warning
level back to that input-output thing I
mentioned syslog for the next generation
syslog ASL will have a syslog d module
so it can handle input from all of the
standard interfaces that syslog expects
them from like dev vlog and such also
from UDP if you so wish to enable back
so you're dependent on that
functionality and then for writing it
will have full syslog vlog comp support
so you can have messages still continue
to go to their old locations although
it's not the preferred interface for for
some of the things like searching the
local store as you heard yesterday via a
sequel bite in Tiger and it'll give you
the facility to be able to to do a
little bit richer searching on here on
your blog messages and also go through a
programmatic interface so your
individual app can display you know its
short history of your possible debug
output without having to send the user
to a to a separate location to find that
data we have to have a couple of ideas
for possible future extensions the
convention the remote logging is not
secure so maybe come up with with a way
of being able to remedy that sort of
problem being able to do blogging from
SNMP information which we will integrate
that into the logging infrastructure
maybe you want to advertise some of your
syslog information on your blog you can
do things like live RSS once the
information is in a separate modular
sort of interface you can do all sorts
of things maybe message in the bedroom
can message the machine in the den my
disk is full I need help the individual
log records themselves have a couple of
components that are automatically filled
in
for you we're going to be trying to
capture the user information both as the
username string and as a UID if you
separate record interfaces because those
might not necessarily match all the time
similarly group information you might
want to know our query like a good cross
a group of which applications are doing
logging timestamp for what course the
log messages received and machine name
of mostly for now for future
extensibility for being able to support
remote logging and then the application
name itself which is derived simply from
RGB 0 so if you wish to overload that
you can you can change it and of course
things that you have to specifically
call from the API the log level itself
determines a little bit how it gets
filtered the message itself and then
we're also providing an ancillary data
field so you can go ahead and attach a
string that would not show up
necessarily in the central blog message
so it's searchable as a separate field
when is it a good idea to log
information well really all the time
anytime you do anything sort of useful
like you know system service like if you
start listening on a socket or start you
know advertising a service if you
disable the service parsing
configuration files creating new files
and some of the reasons this is useful
is if things start to break down then
you can provide the the error messages
saying you know this file was you know
corrupted and I can't deal with it some
people you know had applications just go
ahead and do a couple bounces in the doc
and not do anything and that's really
not a very good interface and to be able
to provide some sort of mechanism for
the user to be able to figure out what
exactly went wrong and maybe possibly
correct it would be very useful so
awfully is it for diagnostic information
for various things not just from
application like hard application errors
but things that where the system is in a
consistent state where application can
deal with a particular problem but it
may not be ideal and the system can you
can provide log messages tables that
give information for the user to be able
to tune their system
again providing a simple audit trail to
be able to figure out what the
application is actually doing one of the
next things about Mac os10 is you get to
hide a lot of that complexity and a
lower from the lower layers up through a
nice user interface but it's also nice
to be able to keep track of that
information so if a person doesn't need
to use it it is available for ASL we're
planning on a log level policy very
similar to what this log currently use
uses its extensible and the matter for
these are are gonna be arbitrary strings
that you can use to to set these log
messages but for right now we want to be
able to you know as we migrated from
syslog be able to provide you know
directs this log compatibility at the
top level you know it is an emergency
log level typically not for most
application developers it's more for
things like the colonel to say you know
this system is actually you know it's
completely stopped I can't do anything
more it's a wonder this lug message you
know it actually get written at all it's
to the point where you know you're
archiving the the state of the world for
future generations to come back and and
determine what will happen alerts
different things that the user can
handle and should immediately on things
like disk full or maybe my network
disconnected and I'm absolutely
dependent on that network and maybe even
but not quite there not quite the same
as say like a hard device error like I
had a problem reading from this hard
drive again like these are some of the
kernel level facilities and things like
that are higher level than some
applications applications thing start
right around error where it's errors you
know a hard fatal error where you know
you were expecting something and that's
not true anymore and you can't do
anything but but exit this will provide
at least a mechanism for for you to
provide the user with information of why
you have to quit warnings again non
fatal errors things that the system or
that your application may not
necessarily you know have a problem
dealing with but that shouldn't be that
way and this love the users like like
configuration file is consistently miss
thing has to be regenerated or something
notice is therefore things but that
aren't in their aunt errors but you may
still want to inform the user like I'm
starting a particular service
tered SSH on allowing remote printing
info allows you to log informational
messages such as you know this user
logged in you know from a remote
connection or there's mail waiting for
you or any number of different things
that that could be useful for the user
to know about and then debug provides
again a lower level so you can do things
like lightweight racing you know syslog
isn't a profiling utility so it
shouldn't be used as such but to be able
to provide the user like a set of clear
things of how it got to where it did and
then as you as application developer
issue you can do like things like log
analysis to figure out what necessarily
went wrong there's a command-line
interface currently it's the same as
what we currently have fits this lock
compatibility the command called blogger
so logger by itself with a with a string
will will log just that string at some
default level priority you can also do
things slightly more sophisticated like
specify you know the actual app name
that gets logged and then the priority
from the command line so this would be
just starting back up at log level
notice with the application name back up
sh we're also planning a query interface
in the command line it'll start obsolete
using you know prep and that'll provide
a little bit more functionality
currently we haven't decided if this
command is going to live within lager or
as a separate utility but in the
interface will be something like you
could specify log your desk you for a
query and then you can do globs on the
particular thing so by default it would
glob be the message itself so this would
get both starting back up and started
testing or you could say after things
like you know give me all on lug
messages from back up sh with a priority
level of notice of the API again much
like syslog is is rather straightforward
all the headers that you need is just
going to be in contained within slh and
there's very few basic data structures
that you need one of them takes truck
ASL
breath it's returned by my ASL open if
it's not only have an error and you
really can't blog the fact that you have
an error but ASL log then calls with the
ref with a tag that specifies the the
actual priority and then takes a printf
styles are like string that specifies
like the log message itself and then
it's always nice to be able to close
your references if you don't need them
anymore but I also mentioned that you
can specify ancillary data so using the
ASL set command and you can do things
like specifying the key data you can add
say and arbitrary additional arbitrary
string likes a hostname to the log
message and then as you call as you call
ASL log then that extra information is
going to be logged with the next log
message and then that field is cleared
so that the if I called a slog ASL log
again you would not have the hostname be
set how do we search in addition to the
ASL ref we also need another opaque
struct called ASL response again opening
the log reference is the same and then
you call ASL set and then a particular
key that you wish to search for and then
what that key should match as so it's a
level debug for the ASL key level will
return all messages that match the level
debug throughout your log archive then
you call ASL search on that reference
and that returns in ASL response now
with an ASL response you can iterate
over calling ASL response next and then
to get the individual fields from the
log message you can say ASL response get
on that response so in this case you'll
be retrieving the sender the pit and the
message and then printing off and then a
format you know similar to an old-style
syslog message and then the ASL response
free clean up references a long way I so
close
so in summary it have a consolidated
programming interface for accessing log
information something that really quite
hasn't been done before unified log
information store again being able to
query the single sequel light databases
as the back end but also being able to
specify other locations that the
messages could possibly go the modular
interface for receiving and storing
messages speed will be the API isn't
plan for tiger but we're looking at
things in the future for opening up
things so you can write your own unless
modules for being able to deal with
these messages both input and output and
it's just in general a good debugging
tool for users until you'll find out
what went wrong with their system and if
I could do anything about it I guess
this time I like to bring up Jordan
Hubbard for beyond syslog things that in
system administration that go beyond the
scope of just looking at logs
Thanks my honor ok so my portion of the
talking might be titled beyond beyond
syslog because we realized in this
session that we're going to have a lot
of system administrators in the audience
and we figured this would be a good
opportunity to talk about some stuff
that we may not actually be able to have
in Tiger but are all works in progress
we're certainly going to try and get
somewhere all of them done for Tiger but
no promises but this is sort of the
direct direction we're going in and the
types of problems we're trying to solve
so one thing we've noticed it's
interesting about Apple's evolving user
base I can put it that way is we're
getting a lot more UNIX people and they
tend to be system administrators they
tend to diplay in IT environments
they're deploying Xers which is
obviously a new product for Apple and
somewhat out of the boundaries of the
traditional desktop market so they're
bringing to us a lot of interesting new
problems shall I say that I'll cover
here one thing actually I'll say the
number one thing they asked for is
better package management yeah so
unfortunately package management is
actually hard it's one of those really
it's not very deep but it's a very wide
problem space and dealing with
dependency tracking dealing with undo
dealing with arbitrary scripts that
might runs or post installation scripts
where you have some really strange piece
of software that you know has to go off
and petrova system maybe add users
perhaps go configure something in the
i/o registry you ever really know what
an arbitrary package is going to try to
do so to get it to do that in a way
which is flexible and gives you some
prayer of security is not an easy
problem to solve so as I said one of the
well these are some of the issues that
we have with today's package management
and one is which I by which I mean the
PKG MP kg files that the installer eats
and number one gripe i can install what
i've installed or I can't back out so if
I've installed
a software update which for some
unforeseen reason doesn't believe my
system in the best condition afterwards
I'd like to be able to go back in time
and there's no dependency tracking
across packages so if you have several
packages sitting in a directory together
and one depends on the other there's
there's really no notion for that at all
the only thing that apple provides today
something called the the n package which
is basically just an agglomeration of a
package in all of its dependencies and
if you have 2n packages which contain
the same sub components they'll both
stupidly install the same sub components
over and over again plus of course you
have the overhead of downloading the
same bits several times we have library
receipts and the the bomb or build of
materials files is pretty much the only
installed software database that you get
and obviously this is insufficient it
doesn't let you do queries doesn't let
you at a glance find out what's
installed on your system when it was
installed and other useful things
there's no file or package conflict
checking so if two packages claim the
same file that's just fine which of
course it's not and upgrade support is
really a pretty weak with the current
system it basically just checks that
you're you're I think you're
monotonically increasing in version
numbers and then splat the new files
into place there is no command line
interface that I really know of for
installing packages so the future is
essentially to look at all of these
problems which we obviously have been
doing and come up with something that
doesn't become the spiritual embodiment
a second system syndrome which is
basically the problem that most people
have when they go out to write a next
generation package system they they want
to solve all the problems that they've
seen today and they end up noodling
around for about three or four years and
end up producing either something that's
too arcane to ever use or it never sees
the light of day which is more often the
case so we have a couple of efforts
that we've we have sort of started and
then stopped again because we saw the
the danger signs of that occurring and
put the brakes on and what we're
basically committed to doing at this
point is doing it in the open and
developing a new package management
system with the BSD copyright so it's
usable by by any of the open source
operating systems out there and doing it
as a cooperative effort with open source
developers because we realized if we try
and do this internally it will turn into
into a horror we will stick prologue in
there we will use XML and all kinds of
evil interested ways it will do dynamic
xslt transforms on the packing list and
will we have lots of technology and so
our tennessee's to want to use all of it
and that's not necessarily good thing in
this space so we're going to do this
with with outside developers as well so
we can maybe keep this a little bit same
so some other issues there's a lot of
third-party software out there if you
look at for example the freebies
deportes collection I believe they're up
to 11,000 ports that's a lot of software
and Mac users are really no different in
having the same desires they would like
to be able to install arbitrary bits of
third-party software on their system
hopefully in a reasonably safe way so
that it doesn't go and clobber system
components or attempt to do so so that's
the probably the second biggest request
we get is when are you going to come up
with something like the port's
collection so as I said there are lots
and lots of these things and basically
right now what's going on is people are
just sort of tossing build recipes back
and forth furtively in the dark and
saying this is how i ported this
particular thing or they create blogs
and they and they just trade information
back and forth but supporting these
things yourself it's not not really a
great thing to do so obviously as I said
you know with previous reports that are
existing attempts to solve this problem
there's net bsd well and the current
offerings on Mac OS 10 is a nepalese
package source which is derived from the
previous deportes collection it actually
does work on Mac OS 10 today
I can't say that were used it so I don't
know how well it works but if they do
claim Mac os10 is one of their supported
platforms there's something called
Darwin ports which I and a couple other
people started about two years ago and
this was our attempt to solve this
problem using TCL and what we thought
was hopefully a higher level framework
than what freebsd ports provides which
is basically make files but yeah it's
not ideal we learned a lot of really
useful lessons with our imports but we
see that we still have a way to go with
it and of course there's the ubiquitous
fink which i'm sure a number of you
either use or have used and they're
certainly they have the leadership role
in terms of providing the widest
collection of pre ported software
they're very responsive in updating
their ports and keeping them actually
working and that that's an important
point it doesn't matter how elegant your
you're wrapping system is for for
automating the building of software if
you don't have a fairly vibrant
community of people who are actively
maintaining it and this is one area
where you look at for example the Debian
folks and they have they have
infrastructure coming out various
horrify it's really impressive because
they've really solved a lot of a lot of
the the fringe aspects of the problem
space and by a fringe I don't mean in
terms of importance just in terms of
what most programmers consider
interesting and that is web pages which
document what software is out there what
version is currently at who maintains it
the list of bugs filed against it which
architectures the packages are available
for so there really a good model of a
vibrant organization around porting
software so for the future we we're not
sure what the future holds here we're
continue to back our imports just as a
pretty good solution but we're actually
looking at cooperating with some of some
of the Linux distributions which have
also started to run into the same
problem some of whom were
saying s rpms are not really the right
way to build software it was a good
solution for its time but we want
something similar to the FreeBSD ports
collection in the sense that we want a
massive tree of building recipes and
it's important to just to note and users
may consume packages but those packages
have to come from somewhere and so
creating the the infrastructure and
environment for building these packages
and maintaining that is at least as
important as coming up with a good
package management system and so we're
looking at some interesting ways of
doing maybe an end-to-end solution where
you start with an XML recipe which
describes how to build it and then as it
goes along the food chain and gets built
into some sort of destination route and
then it's finally packaged up that same
XML file simply has more properties
added to it which describe the package
metadata and then that's bundled in as
part of the package itself so you never
actually lose the original build recipe
so some other issues system
configuration is still difficult it's
something that involves lots and lots of
different configuration files scattered
around the system you're never even sure
at any given time what demons are
configured or or will launch in response
to some stimulus and then of course once
you know which demons are out there you
have to learn their configuration
formats and it seems like every single
demon in the system has invented its own
Apache Scott httpd.conf Samba has
smb.conf you name a demon I'll name you
a unique configuration format which
applies to that demon and that demon
only different services also have
different semantics so in some cases you
can edit the configuration file and then
you need to go tell the demon that its
configuration file change by sending in
a special signal in other cases there's
a management command like Apache CTL
which you need to run to restart it in
some sort of civilized fashion in most
cases there's nothing you you go and you
find the the demon question you shoot it
down and you restart it and you hope it
restarts and didn't leave
state files lying around which annoy it
the second time it comes up basically a
reboot is you know the only assured
method for for restarting it properly
which is by the way one of the reasons
why some of the software updates reboot
you it isn't just because the colonel
has changed it's because it's altered
some service and the only way to get the
new service running is to reboot your
system that blows ok so there's also no
notion of a configuration parameter
space that they can share or rendezvous
in so in some cases a number of demons
would like to share a common knob it's
an object control some global resource
and they should all respect it or a
global knob that says no demons should
run at all right now please I'm doing
I'm doing a back up again so there's
there's no notion of that the the
closest thing we have to a shared
configuration space is this total table
in the kernel and obviously that's
that's pretty low level and only really
allows you to configure Colonel knobs it
doesn't allow you to configure things up
in user space nor should it and the
whole remote management issue is is
basically nonexistent other than SS a
Qing in and doing it has a command-line
interface doing it that way so we've
been looking at this this problem very
hard and one motion that we came up with
which were we've been prototyping and
playing with is the notion of a
configuration API and that's good for a
lot of different reasons and the chief
reason I i really like it is it finally
gives you a path to go down if you want
to create a new service and say I don't
want to invent my own configuration file
format there are quite enough thank you
so but I don't have any there's nothing
in lib see or any of the standard UNIX
api's that allows you to do that and ok
if you use corefoundation you can use CF
preferences which is which is a good
start for this it definitely eliminated
a lot of doc files in your home
directory but if you're not using CF if
you're sort of a UNIX demon
and that doesn't really do you any good
unless you want to drag all of CFM with
your set of libraries so we're looking
at a fairly low level serve sorry for
the low little service which lets you
set and get properties query walk the
tree something similar to an SNMP nib
but but a little bit with more
structured data and so you have a
configuration a space you have api's for
getting and setting the stuff and you
have a persistent data store probably an
SQLite database is our first choice
right now so you have cables and rose
and you can also bring up the SQLite to
also browse it if you want to do it that
way but we're not married to that right
now it's just one potential data store
and the most important aspect of this is
its application agnostic now you can
write a cocoa browser which lets you
browse these things and tweak stuff you
can have services just programmatically
going and setting and yet values you'll
have a command-line tool which for any
demon which conforms to this this new
API will have its knobs registered with
so you don't have to think of which
specific command goes with a specific
demon and obviously if you also want to
have a web front end to it for remote
management or whatever you could do that
or you could write a proxy demon which
authenticates to a remote client may be
a cocoa application again or whatever
and lets you do this remotely so some of
the issues that are going to make this a
difficult problem is we have a number of
existing configuration data stores
there's the the SC dynamic store stuff
that config to users there's
surprisingly net info which still store
certain system parameters so we need to
merge those and you need backwards
compatibility one of the the cardinal
sins in the UNIX market is to come up
there with a bold new mechanism that
completely changes all the rules and say
but it's really better you know you
really want it because it's better and
they say you know I don't care I i can
write a patchy configuration files in my
sleep and i want to keep doing that
thank you very much or I are just a set
of common configuration files across my
Lewis machines my
go as ten boxes my freebsd boxes and i
want those to continue I want that
scheme to continue to work so we are
looking at the notion of configuration
file parsing plugins that map from one
space to the other which is not easy to
do because there's an imperfect match
for a lot of these configuration files
and you of course have the issue of what
happens when you update one or not the
other do you try and back propagate the
change if you make it to this the
centralized data store but don't make it
to the flat ASCII file that it came from
or do you just do it one way you
essentially do it as a migration tool so
there's a lot of interesting trade-off
there and we're looking at that very
closely so and you need to call with a
fairly high level API for this so that
you can do something similar to pee
lists where you have dictionaries and
arrays and sort of arbitrarily complex
data types so that people don't just use
it as a binary blob data store and still
have to pick the data park themselves
but obviously you don't know the full
range of configuration data that people
are going to want to store so you need
to pick a very flexible format the
pilots format actually isn't too bad one
because it is it is quite flexible that
way and of course you need things like
transaction and roll back if I make a
whole bunch of configuration changes and
then it blew the system up it would be
or somebody did at three o'clock in the
morning because you have five or six
administrators all sharing the same
duties and I'd like to be able to come
in and say you know at 6am and say Burt
messed up the system you probably
wouldn't use that word but anyway and
and you want to be able to roll it back
so that's and it's important or even see
the transaction history to see who it
was I'm just fingerprints are all over
this mess so surprisingly enough we've
been trying to kill that info for
several years and it looks like Ned info
might actually be a good solution for
this so maybe rather than killing it
utterly we simply reinvent it we do do a
kind of a lateral transition now let me
let me be really clear about this we've
been trying to kill that info because it
does have some fragility issues when you
use it as your central user group hosts
the data store and more importantly it
doesn't interoperate with others it's
it's not ldap it's not
active directory so the whole notion of
open directory is to take those those
those problems away from it info and do
them in a more layered and abstract
fashion and it does that quite well but
if you took that info and said well this
is this is just a configuration data
store now and we no longer you know it's
no longer part of the critical path
we're absolutely every every login or
user ID look up it's actually easy to
make it robust for that particular
application it also has the notion of a
distributed database so you can have
medieval parent domains and parents for
those so there's a hierarchical network
namespace and that turns out to be
really useful for storing configuration
data because you end up having system
administration domains the art
department the sales department the
engineering department and they may have
common knobs that our department wide
and then you have knobs that are
specific to the machine so we're looking
at potentially bending that info to our
will and giving it a sexy new french
name and turning it into something else
so some other design goals and this
doesn't just apply to the problem space
I I mentioned but but overall anything
doable of you via the UI should be
doable on the command line that's one of
the number one bricks to the head we've
taken over the last year or so now don't
clap yet cuz I didn't promise this I
said this is a zangle and it's something
we are we are getting this point we we
every time I go out to Hollywood or
somebody who uses a lot of machines this
is like one of the number one things
that hit me with so we do understand
this is a really important goal some of
the stuff that Apple has done is very
you I centric like you know a software
update and it took a little while to to
make it dual mode so in some cases you
have to go back and sort of do the
retroactive design but going forward we
real it were really clear on the fact
that you need to design that that just
feel adds angle from the beginning
another complaint we get is you I did
something and I have no idea of what you
know I clicked on something and some
file was modified or some data store had
an
they made to it can you tell me what
that was I might also want to be able to
reproduce that action on the command
line elsewhere where I don't have that
you I so the UI can be a great way of
showing you how to do something if it
will show you how I did it so that's
another important design goal for
everything that we're doing in the
future documentation for for command
line tools turns out to be important so
so we're actually now doing this as part
of our builds we actually have a
verification phase which goes and says
hey mister maintainer your command line
tool you have you installed something in
user bin and it does not have a man page
and it slaps you upside the head
repeatedly until you do something about
it so so something that we're also
trying to be really cognizant of is that
the the road is littered with the
decaying skeletons of those UNIX folks
who have gone before us and tried to
make this work it is a it is a hard
problem space to find the right balance
for if you get to hog wild in in front
ending everything the admin's screen
that you're dumbing things down and that
you didn't get or or that you didn't
give them a button for exactly what they
wanted to do how dare you etc and if you
make it too simplistic they won't use it
say what's the point I can do this on
the command line my fingers are
hard-wired for that command what good is
your UI tool and if you look at a lot of
things that people have done in the
industry you'll see things on both sides
of the number line so this is something
that it's one of the reasons I wanted to
cover these points here is these are all
works in progress these are all things
that either in under investigation or
are being prototyped and this is an area
where administrative feedback people who
actually at the rock face doing this
stuff day in and day out can really
really help us with because again we're
engineers so we'll go out and build an
elephant we're a mouse is called for or
vice versa if you just leave us alone
with with the specs and no adult
supervision but if we have real-world
scenarios and
and definite strong input must do this
it must do that it must not do this
other thing that is incredibly important
to us so i encourage you to send me
email contact us through channels file
enhancement reports you don't just have
to file bug reports when you go to bug
reporter you can also say I'd like this
enhanced I'd like a new feature place so
I encourage you to do that